Pd 1808 write instances tutorial (#3654)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALEUIReference/InstancesScreens.md

### Disks

The **Disks** settings allow mounting storage volumes to an instance.

> For containers, options include creating a new dataset or using an existing one.
> For VMs, you must use an existing zvol and specify the I/O bus and size of the root disk.

Author: ```suggestion
Container options include creating a new dataset or using an existing one.
VMs use the [**Volumes**](#manage-volumes) screen to select or create a new volume.
VMs must specify the I/O bus and size of the root disk.
```

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Virtualization/AddDiskScreen.png" alt="Add Disk Screen - Container" id="Add Disk Screen - Container" >}}

{{< truetable >}}
| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Source** | Enter or browse to select the host source path for the disk. For a new dataset, enter or browse to select the parent path. |
| **Destination**| Enter the destination path to mount the disk in the instance. |
{{< /truetable >}}
{{< /expand >}}

**Save** applies changes.

#### Delete Disk Mounts

The **Delete Item** dialog asks for confirmation to delete the selected disk mount.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Virtualization/DeleteDiskDialog.png" alt="Delete Item Dialog" id="Delete Item Dialog" >}}

**Confirm** activates the **Continue** button.
**Continue** starts the delete operation.

#### Change Root Disk Setup

The **Change Root Disk Setup** dialog allows you to configure the size of the disk a VM stores its OS on and boots from and change the root disk I/O bus.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Virtualization/IncreaseRoot.png" alt="Increase Root Disk Size Widget" id="Increase Root Disk Size Widget" >}}

> Enter a new root disk size in GiB, such as *20*.

Author: ```suggestion
{{< truetable >}}
| Setting | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| **Root Disk Size (in GiB)** | Increases the size of the VM root disk. Enter a new root disk size in GiB, such as *20*. |
| **Root Disk I/O Bus** | Sets the communication pathway type for the root disk. Options are **NVMe**, **Virtio-BLK**, and **Virtio-SCSI**. |
{{< /truetable >}}
```
